haskell-docs: Various small improvements (#210922)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/languages-frameworks/haskell.section.md

Every package set also re-exposes the GHC used to build its packages as `haskell.packages.*.ghc`.

### Available package versions {#sec-haskell-available-versions}

We aim for a “blessed” package set which only contains one version of each
package, like Stackage (and based on it) but with more packages. Normally in
nixpkgs the number of building Haskell packages is roughly two to three times
the size of Stackage. For choosing the version to use for a certain package we
use the following rules:

1. By default, for every package `haskellPackages.foo` is the newest version
found on Hackage (at the time of the last update of our package set).
2. If the Stackage snapshot that we use (usually the newest LTS snapshot)
contains a package, we use the Stackage version as default version for that
package.
3. For some packages, which are not on Stackage, we have manual overrides to
set the default version to a version older than the newest on Hackage. We do

> this to get them or their dependencies to compile in our package set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this to get them or their reverse dependencies to compile in our package set.
```

4. For all packages, for which the newest Hackage version is not the default
version, there will also be a `haskellPackages.foo_x_y_z` package with the
newest version.
5. For some packages, we also manually add other `haskellPackages.foo_x_y_z`
versions, if they are required for a certain build.

Relying on `haskellPackages.foo_x_y_z` attributes in derivations outside
nixpkgs is discouraged because they may change or disappear with every package

> set update.

Reviewer: Can you add a TODO here to link to the documentation of callHackage later when its done?

> All `haskell.packages.*` package sets use the same derivations and the same sets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All `haskell.packages.*` package sets use the same package descriptions and the same sets
```

-A env default.nix`. If you have `cabal-install` installed globally, it'll work
inside the shell as expected.

> ### shellFor {#sec-haskell-shellFor}

Reviewer: Wondering if we should just drop the `sec-`/`ssec-` prefix altogether.

Author: I agree, since these anchors are semi user-facing.

Reviewer: Okay, then let's do it. There are pre-existing anchors with both schemes in the manual, so it hardly matters.

<!-- TODO(@sternenseemann): deps are not included if not selected -->

### haskell-language-server {#sec-haskell-language-server}

To use HLS in short: Install `pkgs.haskell-language-server` e.g. in
`nativeBuildInputs` in `shellFor` and use the `haskell-language-server-wrapper`
command to run it. See the [HLS user guide] on how to configure your text
editor to use HLS and how to test your setup.

HLS needs to be compiled with the GHC version of the project you use it
on.

``pkgs.haskell-language-server`` provides
``haskell-language-server-wrapper``, ``haskell-language-server``
and ``haskell-language-server-x.x.x``
binaries, where ``x.x.x`` is the GHC version for which it is compiled. By

> default, it only includes binaries for the current GHC version, to reduce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default, it only includes binaries for the default GHC version, to reduce
```

closure size. The closure size is large, because HLS needs to be dynamically
linked to work reliably. You can override the list of supported GHC versions
with e.g.

```nix

> pkgs.haskell-language-server.override { supportedGhcVersions = [ "90" "94" ]; }

Reviewer: Explain what those strings correspond to (i.e. the suffix after `ghc` in `haskell.compiler`).

```

When you run `haskell-language-server-wrapper` it will detect the GHC
version used by the project you are working on (by asking e.g. cabal or

> stack) and pick the appropriate above mentioned binary from your path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stack) and pick the appropriate versioned binary from your path.
```

Be careful when installing HLS globally and using a pinned nixpkgs for a
Haskell project in a `nix-shell`. If the nixpkgs versions deviate to much

> (e.g., use different `glibc` versions) a wrapper script by HLS will try to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g., use different `glibc` versions) the HLS wrapper script will try to
```

> detect these situations and fail to start. It is recommended to then install
> HLS in the `nix-shell` from the nixpkgs version pinned in there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detect these situations and fail to start. It is recommended to obtain
HLS via `nix-shell` from the nixpkgs version pinned in there instead.
```

The custom interface comes into play when you want to override the arguments
passed to `haskellPackages.mkDerivation`. For this, the function `overrideCabal`

> from `haskell.lib.compose` is used. E.g., if you want to install a man page

Reviewer: Commas before an if are rarely necessary even if every German instinct tells you they are!

```suggestion
from `haskell.lib.compose` is used. E.g. if you want to install a man page
```

Author: My languagetool always claims that commata are needed after "e.g."

Reviewer: seems it read a different punctuation guide to myself :)

Author: After consulting the internet my decision seems to not be completely wrong.
